I wasn't always soft or radiant or even
feeling safe in my body. There was a
time in my life where I was pushing,
doing, focusing on achieving,
always chasing, fixing, planning, and
trying to control every single thing in
my life. And it wasn't until my body was
shutting down. My body was literally
giving up until I realized I'm running
on wounded energy. I'm not running on
the energy that I am supposed to be. Hi
guys and welcome back to my channel. My
name is Mika and today I want to talk
about five habits that helped me to heal
my feminine energy and ultimately
changed my life. Let's get into this.
There was a time in my life where I felt
like the only way to deserve life, to
deserve love, to deserve success was by
constantly doing, by constantly being
productive. So everything that was not
under the category of being productive
for me was just not on my daily plan and
I didn't really wanted to spend time on
those things. And with those things, I
mean taking care of my appearance,
taking care of what my soul truly wants,
taking care of me and my actual needs
and my emotions. But those exact things
that I kept neglecting are things that
are connected with feminine energy, are
things that as women make us feminine.
The first habit that changed everything
for me was when I stopped trying to be
understood by people who couldn't see me
with overdoing, overachieving, and
always giving. I unconsciously had the
belief that I need to deserve love. I
need to deserve life. I need to deserve
people. I need to deserve to be
understood. And this of course showed up
in the relationships I had with people.
And I always tried to overexlain myself,
over justify everything, over give to
people in order for them to finally see
me, to finally love me, to finally give
me what I needed. And what healed my
feminine energy on a deeper level was
when I stopped doing that. When I
stopped explaining myself. When I
stopped giving reasons or excuses and
people who wanted to be with me, who
wanted to understand me, they naturally
did. Healing my feminine energy was the
moment I stopped begging others to
understand me. To understand also the
way I want to live. If I want to be a
woman living in her feminine energy,
expressing and embracing her softness,
her sensitivity, her emotions, I need to
be surrounded by people who welcome
that, who love that version of me. I
cannot be with people who are trying to
diminish my softness, who are trying to
make me feel like my softness, my
sensitivity is too much or is not
acceptable. And now I don't explain
myself anymore. I don't explain my
softness. I don't explain my
sensitivity. I don't excuse myself for
being an emotional being. And on a
deeper level, I shifted from I need to
deserve. I need to do something. I need
to be acceptable. I need to be a certain
type of way to receiving. I am who I am.
I do what I like to do. And I receive
people who like to be with that version,
who like me for the sake of being me. So
I shifted from doing and deserving to
receiving. And because we are talking
already about receiving, I want to
continue with the next habit. And that
was that I let things be done for me. I
had this intense addiction, this intense
need for doing everything myself. I was
hyper independent and I didn't want
anyone to help me. That's what I learned
from my mom. That's what I learned from
my auntie. Every woman in my life told
me always to not ask for help. Do
everything yourself. Be independent.
And while being independent is not a bad
thing itself, but being hyper
independent and not accepting help is
actually blocking your feminine energy.
It's blocking your ability to receive
from life, from people, from love, to
receive anything. Because when you block
your ability to receive in love or in
one topic, this is influencing your
ability to receive in all over your
life. You cannot say hey I don't want to
receive anything from people but I want
to receive money happiness and blessings
from the universe from life that's not
going to happen because you are blocking
it and deep down we feel guilty or we
are blocking this receiving energy
because we are addicted to control and
receiving means letting go of that
control. Letting go of control is
triggering fear because you are not used
to that. You were living in control for
most of your life. And of course, it's
going to be uncomfortable. Of course,
you are going to feel fear when the
first time you want to let go of control
and let other people do things for you.
So what I started doing is that I
consciously decided to receive more
help. I asked for help. I said yes when
someone wanted to open the door for me.
I said yes when my best friend wanted to
pay for dinner or for the coffee for me.
I was appreciating compliments and I
took those compliments because that's
part of receiving. That's part of
letting go control. And with those small
steps, I was healing my feminine energy.
And especially in love relationships,
this is a very very important point
because the moment you start to embrace
your feminine energy more, the moment
you start to heal your feminine energy,
the moment you start to welcome
receiving from your man, that's the
moment he will be able to step up. You
give him space. You give him
room for him to step up in his masculine
energy. And a man wants to step up. A
man wants to provide for you. But a man
only wants to provide for a woman who
wants to receive. Think about gifting
something to one of your friends, but
this person doesn't want to receive the
gift. Would you do it again? You will
try maybe once or twice but then you
will be like
what's the point? If I want to give but
the other person doesn't want to receive
then probably better I just do not even
try. And that's the same with
friendships, relationships and the
universe. When you're always saying no
to receiving, no to help, no to
everything around you wanting to give
you something. That's what the universe
is understanding. You are not wanting to
receive and the universe people stop
trying to make you receive. Life is
going to be so much more magical and so
much more full of blessings and
happiness. Once you decide that you're
open for help, that you are open for
receiving, let life surprise you. Let
your man plan a date for you or an
experience or an excursion. Let your
bestie take you out without you being in
control of to which place you are going.
Let your bestie order something for you
from the menu. Small things make you
open to receive and receiving is one of
the biggest parts of feminine energy.
The next simple and small habit that
changed a lot for me was when I made
myself and my nervous system feel safe
with pleasure. Some time ago, I was not
available to pleasure. I was not
available to too much rest, too much
time for makeup, for taking care of my
body, for cooking something that is
truly good for my body and my soul
because it's not productive. So, I was
unavailable to pleasure. But pleasure is
something that actually makes you step
into your beautiful feminine energy.
Pleasure is what makes life interesting
and juicy. It's not every day being
productive and working and not missing
out any minute. Being open and available
to pleasure was changing a lot for me.
So I started doing things that make me
feel soft on purpose. I started creating
my own moments of pleasure and taking
time for that. And even beauty was for
me part of pleasure, part of it's not
being productive. So I was not really
focusing on being beautiful. I was not
really focusing on creating a beautiful
space at home. I was not focusing on
doing my makeup, doing my hair, dressing
in a way that made me feel good because,
as I said, those were connected for me
with pleasure. And pleasure was
something I didn't want to spend time
on. But once I started doing that, once
I started embracing those moments of
pleasure, like really starting to do my
skin care, starting to take my
supplements, starting to do my hair
every single day, starting to take care
of my out appearance. Even though on the
surface it was for me not being
productive, not doing something that
could help me become successful, become
the best version of myself. When you're
taking care of your appearance as a
woman, it's not only on surface level.
This is something you actually do for
your soul and it makes you ultimately
feel good. Women need to feel good to do
good. In comparison to men, they need to
do good in order to feel good. So, as a
woman, you need to prioritize your
pleasure moments. You need to prioritize
your feelings. You need to do everything
possible that makes you feel good, that
makes you feel joy, that makes you enjoy
yourself and your life. Because
ultimately, that's what's going to bring
you even further in life, than doing
more, than being more productive, than
doing and chasing like men would do. You
have to understand that men and women
are very different. And when we are
operating from our wounded energy, which
means also from our masculine energy, we
can only get so far because we are not
supposed to be on that masculine energy
constantly. We are not men. We need to
feel good first in order to do good. So
now, for example, I oil my whole body
every single night because it makes me
feel good. It makes me wake up with
juicy skin. It makes me feel better. I
do my hair every single day. I do my
makeup every single day because I love
doing it. I love how it makes me feel. I
wear dresses. I wear clothing that makes
me feel good, that makes me feel
feminine, that makes me feel like a
goddess. Now I dress to feel good and
not just for convenience or to impress
others. The fourth habit was that I
closed doors to everything that drained
me. This is such an important habit that
also changed a lot for me because I
always felt like I do not want to close
doors. I invested energy. I invested
time and I was more of the let's fix it.
Let's put more energy in it. Let's do
more to make it work. If it was a
relationship, if it was a friendship, if
it was some work project, whatever it
was, I was always feeling like if I
would just put enough energy, enough
work, enough doing in it, it probably
will work. But that's not the case. And
that only was draining from my energy,
was draining me even more and was
separating me from my feminine energy.
So the moment I stopped doing that, I
closed every single door to whatever
drain me, whenever I am now on a table
with people that drain me, I stand up
and I leave. Whenever I talk to someone
and after I feel worse than before, I
close the door to that person. I am not
available for people or things or
experiences that do drain my energy. And
you have to be so brutally honest with
yourself and ask yourself who does make
me shrink myself? Who does make me
perform for them? Who I am not feeling
good with? who I am not feeling well
around, who does give me energy and who
does take energy from me. And to
everyone who takes energy, you have to
let them go. Protecting your peace is
one of the biggest and most important
habits that you have to learn in order
to heal your feminine energy. Femininity
is not being stepped on. Femininity is
not being passive. Femininity is knowing
what feels good, what feels right, what
is meant to be here and what is not. And
to everything that is not, do not be
afraid to say goodbye. Do not be afraid
to close doors. Every time you close one
door of something that is not meant to
be in your life, that is not doing good
to how you feel, another door will open.
Another person will come, another thing
will enter your life and will make you
realize, wow, why I have not even close
those doors earlier? Why did it take so
long for me to understand? There are
people and circumstances out there that
actually can give me energy. And I have
one example. I was always chasing
friendships. I was always craving and
wanting to have one or two good friends
around me, woman friends, not men. I
wanted to have genuine feminine friends
and I couldn't find it for a very very
long time. So I was settling for less
and I didn't want to close doors. I was
always thinking that's just how it is. I
was always feeling like I am giving more
and I am being belittled. But I still
blamed it on myself because I thought
maybe something is wrong with me or
maybe I'm expecting too much because
it's just a friendship, right? But that
was not the case. And once I finally
closed the doors to every single person
that was draining me, that was just not
making me feel good to be around them.
Only then was when this one girl came
into my life that finally made me feel
that thing that I was craving in finding
in other women. that friendship that is
genuine, that is kindhearted, that is
understanding, that is vibing on the
same kind of energy that I do. And now I
am unavailable to everyone and anyone
who was there before her who doesn't
make me feel that same type of way. I do
not want to be with people who are not
making me feel the same as I do already
feel when I am alone or even better. I
am unavailable to those kind of
connections. And on a deeper level, this
is having faith and knowing
your intuition is right. Knowing that
there is better for you waiting. Knowing
that you deserve the world. And yes,
it's feminine when you know I know what
I deserve. When you are certain of what
you deserve and you're not settling for
anything less. You know that you deserve
the world. You know that you deserve
people around you that make you feel
amazing. You know that deep down. And
the moment you stop settling for
anything less than what you deep down
know that you deserve, I promise it's
going to come. You are stepping into
your most powerful version of you. When
you start having faith in your life, in
your universe, in yourself,
whenever you feel like, oh, but maybe
nothing better is ever coming, you are
betraying yourself, there is always
better, honey. There is always exactly
what you want, what you deserve. You
just need to align with that on an
energetic level. Once you align with it,
it's going to come to you. And this is
why it's so important to understand also
the deeper level of healing because on
the surface it might look like, yeah,
but I'm just closing one door. I'm just
embracing receiving more. But it's not
only that. It's way deeper. You are
changing your energetic level. And your
energetic level is ultimately what you
are going to receive in your life, what
you are attracting in your life. So if
you keep settling for less, if you keep
accepting things here, guess what? Only
maybe other things here will come. Once
you start to say, "Hey, here is not
enough for me. I want better. I want to
feel good. I want to feel amazing." What
you have to do is to feel good and to
feel amazing first. Slowly you will come
up here and guess what? People and
circumstances in your life will come and
meet you up here. That's the magic of
feminine energy. Because feminine energy
is everything about feeling good, about
pleasure, about being connected to the
moment of the now. And when you're
connected to the moment of the now, you
are not worrying about what's happening
tomorrow, what's happening in one week,
what's happening in one month. You are
in complete bliss and peace. And when
you are in complete bliss and peace, you
receive people and circumstances who
will create more bliss and peace in your
life. Now the last habit I used to do
when I was healing my feminine energy
was that I would write down every single
day in the morning and in the night
three things that I am grateful for in
the morning three things that I was
grateful for in general like I am
grateful for having a healthy body. I am
grateful for being able to have clear
vision and see everything beautiful on
this earth. I am so grateful to have
water and also explain why I am grateful
to have that. And in the evening I would
say I am so grateful. I have enjoyed
today to go to the sea. I have enjoyed
the minutes in the sun. I have enjoyed a
healthy meal that really nurtured my
body and this first of all made me
change my frequency, my vibration made
me focus on what I am grateful for. And
being grateful is a very high vibration
and I will not focus anymore on what the
bad things are in my life. what I have
to change, what I have to achieve, what
I have to accomplish. And the other
thing was that I really got to know
myself. I got to understand, hey, there
is so much actually in me that already
is so feminine. Like I was really
grateful to have enjoyed moments outside
in nature. Feminine energy is always
connected to nature. I was always
grateful for moments of creativity.
Femininity is very creative. So in this
way I was on one hand hiring my
vibration, my energy on a daily basis
and on the other hand I got to know what
I truly like and I truly enjoy and then
I did more of that. And whenever I was
feeling heavy, I was feeling like I
wouldn't progress. I was feeling like
life was still very heavy sitting on me.
I was also being very depressed in that
period of my life. Then I had like my
happy makers and those were three things
that would instantly make me feel good
when I was envisioning those. For
example, one of them was petting my
cats. When I am just petting my cats and
hearing them pouring next to me, it
makes me happy. I am instantly being on
a higher vibration and not anymore
feeling so heavy. Another thing was me
lying in the sun, lying on the beach,
lying somewhere where I could really
feel the sun rays on my skin. You might
have experienced that when you're going
to the lake, you're going to the beach
and you're just lying there and soaking
up those sun rays on your skin. You feel
the heat on your skin. This was one
thing that always made me feel so good
and so happy. And whenever I felt down,
whenever I felt super heavy, I used
those happy makers. And this was a
gamecher for me healing my feminine
energy without actively knowing and
doing anything. I didn't even know that
I was going on the journey of healing my
feminine energy. I just knew I was not
feeling great. I was having depression.
I was not feeling good anymore in my
life at all. And those were the things
that helped me. And ultimately I got to
understand hey actually I was not being
depressed I was just being hyper
independent
too much in my masculine energy and I am
a woman. Everything that I did that made
me help to get out of my depression was
actually reconnecting with my feminine
energy. And since that realization I
had, I never ever was feeling depressed
anymore. Yes, sadness will come up in
life. Yes, hardship will come up. But
once you know how to reconnect with your
feminine energy and what actually means
to be feminine, you know that everything
can come like whatever comes in life
cannot bring me down because I trust and
I have faith that everything happens for
my highest good. that everything that is
coming into my reality is for some
reason and it should teach me something.
It should bring me further. It should
open my eyes or have any other purpose.
But I know and I trust that the moment
now is the exact moment I am supposed to
be in. The moment now is the exact right
moment for me and my life. The moment
for you now. the moment for you to sit
here, listen to this video, feeling
whatever you're feeling, know, have
trust and faith that this is the exact
moment you should be in. This is the
exact moment that will bring you to
where you are supposed to be at. Anyways
guys, I hope I could help you. Thank you
so much for watching. I love you so so
much and I see you in my next video.
Bye-bye.